Pbench: a program benchmarking toolkit
=================================================

The `pbench` toolkit is a software framework whose purpose is
to help programmers benchmark their programs, with particular support
for parallel programs. The toolkit provides two command-line tools,
namely `prun` and `pplot`, that are useful for small, explorative
benchmarking scenarios. It also provides an OCaml library that is
useful for writing sophisticated performance evaluations of one or 
more benchmark programs, and for generating polished tables and plots 
ready for incorporation in research papers.

- The `prun` tool organizes and executes measured runs of
  client-supplied benchmark programs. Crashes and timeouts of
  benchmark programs are handled gracefully by `prun`. 

- The `pplot` tool generates various human-readable
  output from the data collected by `prun` experiments. Forms
  of output include latex tables, R bar and scatter plots, etc.
  Data that is output by `pplot` can be lightly processed,
  for example, to show the mean run time of a number of runs.
  Moreover, `pplot` can also render error bars.

- The OCaml library provided by `pbench` assists experimentalists
  who need fine-grained tuning of the runs and plots, and who
  want to make their experimental evaluations repeatable
  by other experimenters. The distribution includes example 
  scripts using the lbirary.

Requirements
------------

### Build dependencies

You will need version 4.00 or greater of 
[OCaml](http://www.ocaml.org/) and also a recent version 
of the gnu c compiler [GCC](http://gcc.gnu.org/).

The pbench plot generator requires that recent versions of 
[R](http://www.r-project.org/) and LaTeX be installed on the 
host machine. When pplot generates new plots, all intermediate 
R and latex sources that were generated by pplot are written 
to the `_results` folder. It is not hard to customize the 
look of the plots by editing these files individually.

### Conventions for benchmark programs

The benchmark programs themselves can be written in any 
language. The only requirement is that the benchmark programs
honor a certain format for receiving command-line arguments
and printing measurements.

#### Command-line arguments

The program must receive arguments as lists of key-value 
pairs. The format must be as follows:

    -key1 value1 -key2 value2 ...

Flag arguments of the form `--flag` are also allowed.

Special characters such as commas and dashes must not appear
in the strings of the keys and values.

#### Program output

The program must print measurements to `stdout` in lists
of key-value pairs in the following format:

    key1 value1
    key2 value2
    ...

Keys and values may be separated by one or more spaces or
by tabs.

Output that deviates from this format cannot be parsed by
the `pplot` tool.

#### Example: Fibonacci benchmark program

The following example command-line program honors our conventions.

    $ make -C examples/basic fib
    $ examples/basic/fib -algo recursive -n 39
    result     102334155
    exectime   0.495086

The command-line tools
----------------------

The documentation of the `prun` tool can be found
in `prun.md` and that of the `pplot` tool in `pplot.md`.

Writing custom benchmarking scripts
-----------------------------------

We have created an example script to demonstrate basic use
of our library. The script (and the rest of our library)
is written in [ocaml](http://www.ocaml.org/). At least
an intermediate level of expertise in ocaml is essential
to write custom scripts.

The example script is named `example.ml` and can be found
in the top-level folder of the pbench source tree. 
The associated file named `example.md` provides documentation
of the command-line usage of the script. Although the
source of the document is suitable for reading, the document
can alternatively be rendered and read as a PDF file by the 
following command.

    make example.pdf

To build the ocaml script, namely `example.byte`, make the
following build command.

    make example.byte
    
The documentation explains the usage of the program.

For more advanced examples, see `chunkedseq.ml` and 
`graph.ml`.



